Exercise 1.7: Finalizing Your Python Program



Reflection Questions

1.	What is an Object Relational Mapper and what are the advantages of using one?

An Object-Relational Mapper (ORM) is like a translator between databases and programming languages. It helps developers store and retrieve data from databases using normal code instead of complex database language. This makes coding faster, cleaner, and helps avoid mistakes.


2.	By this point, you’ve finished creating your Recipe app. How did it go? What’s something in the app that you did well with? If you were to start over, what’s something about your app that you would change or improve?

Overall I think creating this app went pretty well. Although challenging and a bit time consuming, it was helpful to "recreate" the app several times but in different ways. This last exercise, 1.7, was the most enjoyable as I 1. had a better understanding of what was expected, and 2. object relational mapping is just a very efficient way of storign data. If I were to start over, I'd want to spend more time on just one "version", such as this last exercise. It would be nice to get more creative and try to make different features/play with the display more, but time constraints didn't leave a ton of room to do so this round.


3.	Imagine you’re at a job interview. You’re asked what experience you have creating an app using Python. Taking your work for this Achievement as an example, draft how you would respond to this question.
 
4.	You’ve finished Achievement 1! Before moving on to Achievement 2, take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course so far: 
a.	What went well during this Achievement?

I was able to get a pretty firm grasp on basic coding skills with Python. Though I have a bit of experience prior, there was always plenty I had not previously known about.


b.	What’s something you’re proud of? 

After writing out the basic structure of my code, I enjoyed going back and refactoring. I think I did well with keeping my code simple, finding ways to shorten the length of functions, without affecting the readability.


c.	What was the most challenging aspect of this Achievement? 

A limited amount of time was probably the most challenging aspect. Though I was able to meet all the requirements, in order to meet the deadline I wasn't able spend enough creativity.


d.	Did this Achievement meet your expectations? Did it give you the confidence to start working with your new Python skills?

Yes - and I'm very excited to move on to the next achievement where I can make my code come to life more than just in a terminal


e.	What’s something you want to keep in mind to help you do your best in Achievement 2?

I really need to focus on my time management when working on the next project. I tend to spend a lot more time on the reading and task than what is approximated, so learning what to spend more of my focus on and what can afford less attention will bode well for me during this upcoming achievement.

